Everything happened so fast.
Everyone thought
that because so much blood was lost,
my life was in danger
and I would need a blood transfusion.
The medical professionals
were describing treatments
that I wasn’t familiar with.
I was (in my mind) trying to think:
‘Have I heard of this?
‘Do I know what this is?
Have I read about it?’
She explained that it was
a complicated surgery
and that because I didn’t take blood,
it would be obviously more serious.
We love life, and in any medical situation,
we want treatments
that preserve or restore our health.
But more important, we want to respect
the Creator of life and his law on blood.
God first spoke that law to Noah’s family.
After the Flood, God told them
that the animals could serve as food,
but he added:
“Only flesh with its life
—its blood—you must not eat.”
Blood represents the life of a creature
and should not be misused.
God repeated this law to ancient Israel
with clear instructions:
“You must not eat it.
You should pour it out on the ground
like water.”
It was the same for early Christians.
They received written direction to
“keep abstaining . .. from blood.”
Jehovah’s Witnesses still obey
that command today,
even though it can be a challenge
to understand
how that command should be applied
to the numerous medical treatments
now available.
Donated whole blood is often separated
into its four main components
—red cells, white cells,
platelets, and plasma.
We abstain from blood by refusing to accept
a transfusion of whole blood
or of any of those four main components.
How did one brother demonstrate
the strength necessary
to abstain from blood during an emergency?
When it comes to blood,
we have to be prepared.
So that’s what I did.
I researched it, and I prayed to Jehovah
so that I could understand his thoughts
and follow them.
And then I wrote down my wishes.
I never thought that I would have
such an accident.
I am very thankful to Jehovah
that he helped me understand
all of these things,
and because of that,
I was able to make and stick
to a decision that pleases him.
Blood fractions are things
that are extracted from any one
of the four main blood components.
But the Bible does not provide
specific direction
about using these fractions.
So to accept them or not
is a personal decision.
Some believe that a small, isolated fraction
is no longer blood.
Others feel they can’t use anything
that came from blood.
How did one sister make an informed decision
about which medications
containing blood fractions to accept?
When it came to fractions,
for me, the challenge
was figuring out what I really felt about it
and deciding for myself
what I would or wouldn’t accept and why.
At stake is our relationship with Jehovah
and having a clean conscience before him.
So it’s something that no one else
could have done for me.
I had to make clear to my doctor
that I absolutely would not accept blood
or any of the four main components.
And I also explained to him
what medications and other treatments
I was willing to accept.
What questions should Christians
ask themselves
about medical procedures
involving their own blood?
What if during the course
of a therapy or procedure
some of my blood will be diverted
outside my body
and the flow might be interrupted for a time?
Does my conscience allow me
to view this blood as still part of me,
thus not requiring
that it be poured “out on the ground”?
What if during a medical procedure
some of my own blood will be withdrawn,
modified, and directed back
into (or onto) my body?
Does it trouble my Bible-trained conscience?
Or could I accept such a procedure?
Am I aware that refusing
all medical procedures
involving the use of my own blood
means that I would not accept a blood test,
hemodialysis, or the use
of a heart-lung bypass machine?
What did one sister do to ensure
she made a decision
that would not disturb her conscience?
So my doctor presented me
with an effective, alternative procedure.
It was something that I knew about,
but I asked her to clarify the details
to make sure
that what she was talking about
was OK with my conscience.
So I made it a personal study project,
and I also asked a mature friend
to help me go through all the information.
I made my decision with a clean conscience,
and I knew it would make
Jehovah’s heart glad.
How can you make informed decisions
about the medical use of blood?
Pray for God’s wisdom and holy spirit.
Meditate on what the Bible teaches,
and learn about the medical treatments
that may be offered to you.
If needed, ask for help
to understand the options.
And finally, put your decisions in writing.
Jehovah God knows what is best for us.
And when our resolve to obey him is tested,
he doesn’t want us to feel alone.
He wants to help us.
When we accept this help and show respect
for life that comes from him,
we can look forward to a paradise
with perfect health and everlasting life.